- [Instructor] So far everything that we've done
for deploying our Spring Boot apps
have been through the Azure CLI
and the Azure Gradle plugin,
and honestly, this is a great way
to deploy Spring Boot apps to production.
I'm betting you're seeing the opportunities here
with scripting out your deployments.
Deploying our Spring Boot app packaged
in a Docker container is very similar,
except we're not going to use
the Azure Web App deploy plugin
but instead we'll be using the Azure CLI commands.
Again, this will allow us to script up
a great deal of these processes.
With that said, we'll be using IntelliJ
and Vagrant again for this deployment.
The project code is still the same one
we've been using and pulling from GitHub
found in our home directories.
From the last video we created
an Azure WARP branch,
we'll switch back to that main branch in a moment.
Our source code from our personal repositories
will map to the project code we are using
in the lab exercise files
with 0504 begin in and in.
With IntelliJ open
and using the project source code
from our previous video,
which is found again
in our home directories SpringBootProduction,
locate the terminal in IntelliJ
and type git switch main.
Next we're going to create another branch
from the Azure branch
by typing git checkout -b
azure_docker
space azure_jar
hit enter.
Again, this will create the Azure Docker branch
from the Azure JAR branch
and simultaneously switch to that branch.
In the meantime, let's go ahead
and ensure that Vagrant is up and running.
I have Vagrant running here.
If you have not started Vagrant yet, please do so
and once it's up then type vagrant ssh,
please pause the video if you need to
to get these things going again.
Okay, back in IntelliJ
we have a few minor code changes here
that will be important for our build Gradle files.
First let's open up the build.gradle file,
and once there scroll to the top
just after the Id java hit enter
and we're going to type Id space org
springframework.experimental
.aot
version single quotes
0.10
.3,
after that hit enter again,
and we're going to type
Id org graalvm
buildtools native
and then version,
after that single quotes
0.9.3,
pause for a moment,
make sure you have everything typed in correctly
as I've said,
okay, next, go to the bottom,
and just below the Azure Web App task
and underneath the test task,
we'll hit enter a couple times
and we're going to type nativeBuild
with a capital B,
curly brackets,
classpath space
processAot
Resources.outputs comma
compileAotJava.outputs,
underneath this task hit enter again
and we're going to type nativeTest curly brackets.
And next we're going to type again
classpath space
processAot
TestResources.outputs
comma compileAot
TestJava.outputs,
we're going to save that
and then scroll back up to the top,
we'll change the source compatibility to 11
and that's all we need to change.
In the terminal window at the bottom
we'll type git add colon,
git commit -m
making changes
for docker deployment
to azure,
hit enter and then we'll push this
to our remote repository,
git push -u origin
azure_docker,
and hit enter.
Now let's go ahead and switch back
to our terminal window.
Hopefully everything is started and running,
and let's go ahead and clear the screen.
Next let's type sdk list java
and what we're looking for here
is the GraalVM,
I've already pre-installed GraalVM.
I'm going to copy the GraalVM identifier,
type Q to quit,
and then what you're going to do
is type sdk install java
paste in the identifier for GraalVM and hit enter.
For me, this is going to respond
that it's already installed,
For you, this will take a moment,
so again, please feel free to pause the video.
If you already have it installed,
you're going to type sdk
use java
and paste the identifier.
Once all of this is done
type java --version to verify.
As you can see,
we have OpenJDK 11 installed
and we have OpenJDK Runtime Environment
GraalVM 21.3
with a build of 11.
Let's clear the screen.
We've installed Docker
on our Vagrant instances back in 0501
and if you've not installed Docker
as of this tutorial,
please go back to that video
and follow the instructions.
If you're unsure,
you can type docker version,
and this will give you the version that's installed.
Okay, let's clear the screen.
Because I have restarted Vagrant
I have to rerun
a sudo dockerd & again.
This will be needed each time
that we have restarted,
and of course, this is also needed
when we run our Gradle boot build image plugin.
If it's already running,
then you shouldn't need to do this.
Now here's the thing,
the intent of this video
is not to teach Linux administration,
but if you want to set up
a dedicated build machine,
then you're going to have to set up
a systemd service.
Let me show you over here in the browser
the documentation that Docker has on doing this.
I highly recommend,
if you're setting up a build machine
that you follow the documentation.
Again for us, we're not following this.
With all of that said,
what I'm about to do will be unsavory
for some Linux admins out there,
but keep in mind the purpose of this video
it's not about installing a Linux service
but teaching recipes
for deploying our Spring Boot apps to Azure.
So I'm going to type
sudo change mod 777
var/run/docker.sock,
this command will need to be run
each time you start and stop
the Vagrant instance
and the docker.sock will only exist
after the sudo dockerd has been executed
looks like I've typed this wrong,
so I'll type sudo change mod 777
/var/run/docker.sock,
okay, with all of that done,
we need to build our Docker image
with the Gradle boot plugin.
So let's ensure we have
the proper project directory.
First of all, let's clear the screen,
let's ensure that we're in the proper directory
type cd build
/azure_deployments/SpringBootProduction/
and hit enter.
Next, we're going to fetch from a origin
we'll type git fetch origin
and then we're going to type
git switch
azure_docker hit enter,
and then we'll type git pull origin.
Let's clear up the screen again
and now it's time to build our Docker image.
Go ahead and type
./gradlew
bootBuildImage
space --imageName
equals cwm-coding
/springboot
- azure-image.
Now, before you hit enter,
I'm prefixing with cwm-coding
feel free to change this
to whatever name you would like.
Okay, let's hit enter
and this will take quite a few minutes.
The VM has limited memory,
so if it does crash due to memory
please pause the video,
restart your Vagrant instance,
and once it's reloaded,
rerun the command again.
All right, we have an error
and I just realized what we forgot to change.
So let's go back to IntelliJ.
In IntelliJ we're going to open
the settings.gradle, hit enter,
we're going to type
pluginManagement,
curly brackets,
repositories,
maven, curly bracket url,
https://
repo.spring.io
space release.
Go to the end of the line hit enter
we'll type mavenCentral,
go to the line again, hit enter,
type gradlePluginPortal.
Down at the bottom,
We'll go ahead and use our previous
git add,
git commit,
and git push origin azure_docker.
As you can see here,
I'm just using the up arrows or down arrows
to go to previous commands.
With that done,
let's go back to our terminal,
we'll type git pull origin
and we've pulled the changes,
we'll type clear
and then up arrow again
to our command and hit enter.
In a previous video,
we talked about how the AOT compiler
will generate a number
of failed verification messages.
Remember that this is okay
because it's a part of the native build process.
Okay, so the build is complete
and we need to test this.
So what we'll type,
first of all, let's copy the image tag
and then we're going to type
docker run
- P80:
9000 -e,
we'll type our Spring Profile
equals dev,
and I'm also going to type docker,
paste in the rest,
take out the colon
and the image and hit enter.
As you can see,
the logs are generating the starting details
showing that the profile that we're using
and that the application has started.
Okay, validating that it is running,
let's type Control + C to exit.
I'm going to clear the screen.
Now we can officially move on
to deploying this image to Azure,
and we'll do this
through the command line interface.
A moment ago I asked you to copy
the image tag,
but let's validate this a different way.
From the terminal window
type docker image list,
and you can see a number of different images here.
We'll copy the image name
and we'll use this going forward.
Now, the first thing we're going to do here
is create a resource group.
We'll do this by typing
az group create
- -name
springboot-azure
- docker-group
space --location
and we'll use the default westus,
hit enter,
and as you can tell
this has now created our resource group.
Let's clear the screen.
Next, we'll go ahead
and create a container registry for our application.
We'll do this by typing az acr create
- -resource-group space
and we'll type the name
of our resource group
springboot-azure
- docker-group
space -- the name of the ACR
that we're going to give it.
So I'm going to call mine
springboot
A-Z-U-R-E-C-R
01 space --skew
and we'll type Basic.
You can see here in what's returned,
that we are inside of our resource group
and we have created
the springbootazurecr01
container registry,
and this is the login server for that.
Again, let's type clear.
To ensure the next steps are successful
and that we can push our Docker images.
We need to log into the container registry.
We can do this by typing az acr
login --name
and we'll specify the name
of our container registry
that we just created.
As you can see,
this was successful.
Now with that done,
we need to tag our Docker image
we created a moment ago,
with the Gradle command boot build image.
We'll do this by typing
docker tag
cwm-coding
springboot-azure
- image,
we will specify the latest,
space and we're going to use
our container registry name
in how we tag our new image.
So let's type springboot
azurecr01
.azurecr.io
/springboot
- prod-image
colon latest, hit enter.
With that done,
let's push our tag Docker image to Azure.
We're going to type
docker push
springbootazurecr01
.azure.cr.io
/springboot
- prod-image,
colon latest.
This may take a few minutes
as it pushes the image.
Now to ensure that everything went well.
Let's list our Azure Container repository,
and we'll do this by typing
az acr repository
list --name
and we'll specify our Azure Container repository.
This will be springboot
azurecr01
and let's output us to a table.
Okay, in a moment,
we're going to create
a container image with the DNS
but to do that,
we need some credentials
and let our ACR,
the Azure Container Registry,
know that the name
springbootazurecr01,
has admin privilege.
To do this we're going to type
az acr update,
specify the name tag
springbootazurecr01
space --admin-enabled
as true.
Hit enter, and it looks like I typoed,
so let me fix that,
admin enabled,
There we go.
Okay, we're also going to need the password
and we can get this
by typing az acr credential
show dash dash,
again, our name of our container registry,
springbootazurecr01,
hit enter.
Okay, let's copy the password
and now we're ready to create the container.
Let's type clear az
container create
- -resource
- group
springboot-azure
- docker-group
space --name,
and this is the container we're going to create,
this will be springboot
azure
- container01
space --dns
- name-label
and this is going to be our DNS address,
springboot-azure
- docker-app.
Then we need to specify the image,
so we'll type --image space
springbootazure
cr01
.azurecr.io
/springboot-prod
- image colon
latest space
- -environment
- variables
SPRING_PROFILES _ACTIVE
equals dev,
azure, docker.
Although my code is only going
to recognize dev,
I'm demonstrating that you can pass in
multiple Spring profiles here.
next type
- -port 8080.
Now this is going to request the username
and then the password,
which we copied.
The username again is
springboot
azurecr01
and the password we'll just paste that in.
Okay, it's complete,
and as you can see here,
we have a fqdn, let's copy that.
Notice the port will open up a browser window
and will append to the end 8080,
and there's our application.